docs: finality provider phase 1 to phase 2 documentation for operators (#130)
babylonlabs-io/finality-provider: docs/finality-provider-operation.md

This ensures that the finality provider daemon can promptly submit 
transactions, such as block votes and public randomness submissions that are 
essential for its liveness and earning of rewards. 

For the `fpd` keyring, the `test` backend will be exclusively used, and it is 
mandatory that you follow this practice until automated key management becomes 
available. Additionally, we are also exploring options to support different 
withdrawal addresses, so that rewards can go to a separate address.

It is also important to note that the finality provider daemon will refund 
fees for the submission of valid votes as those are essential for the protocol.
All other transactions, will require gas, but will be happening infrequently
or only once. As this keyring is used for both earning and 
operational purposes, we strongly recommend maintaining only the necessary 
funds for operations in the keyring, and extracting the rest into
more secure locations.

> ⚠️ **Important**:
> To operate your Finality Provider, ensure your Babylon account is funded. 
> Block vote transactions have their gas fees refunded, but public randomness 

> > submissions require gas payments. For testnet, you can obtain funds from our 
> > [faucet](#add-faucet).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> submissions require gas payments. For testnet, you can obtain funds from a 
> testnet faucet.
```

Let's avoid adding links that will be difficult to maintain

following parameters:

```shell 
[Application Options] 
EOTSManagerAddress = 127.0.0.1:12582 
RPCListener = 127.0.0.1:12581

[babylon] 
Key = <finality-provider-key-name-signer> # the key you used above
ChainID = bbn-test-5 # chain ID of the Babylon chain
RPCAddr = http://127.0.0.1:26657 
GRPCAddr = https://127.0.0.1:9090 
KeyDirectory = <path> # The `--home` path to the directory where the keyring is stored
``` 

> ⚠️ **Important**: Operating a finality provider requires a connection to a 
> Babylon blockchain node. It is **highly recommended** to operate your own 
> Babylon full node instead of relying on third parties. You can find 
> instructions on setting up a Babylon node 
> [here](https://github.com/babylonlabs-io/networks/tree/main/bbn-test-5/babylon-node/README.md).

Configuration parameters explained:
* `EOTSManagerAddress`: Address where your EOTS daemon is running
* `RPCListener`: Address for the finality provider RPC server
* `Key`: Your Babylon key name from Step 2
* `ChainID`: The Babylon network chain ID
* `RPCAddr`: Your Babylon node's RPC endpoint
* `GRPCAddr`: Your Babylon node's GRPC endpoint

> * `KeyDirectory`: Path to your keyring directory (same as --home path)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `KeyDirectory`: Path to your keyring directory (same as `--home` path)
```

``` shell
fpd start --home <path> 
```
An example of the `--home` flag is `--home ./fpHome`.

The command flags:
- `start`: Runs the FPD daemon
- `--home`: Specifies the directory for daemon data and configuration

The daemon will establish a connection with the Babylon node and
boot up its RPC server for executing CLI requests.

You should see logs indicating successful startup:

```
[INFO] Starting finality provider daemon...
[INFO] RPC server listening on...
```

> ⚠️ **Important**: The daemon needs to run continuously. It's recommended to set 
> up a system service (like `systemd` on Linux or `launchd` on macOS) to manage 
> the daemon process, handle automatic restarts, and collect logs.

The above will start the Finality provider RPC server at the address specified
in `fpd.conf` under the `RPCListener` field, which has a default value
of `127.0.0.1:12581`. You can change this value in the configuration file or
override this value and specify a custom address using
the `--rpc-listener` flag.

All the available CLI options can be viewed using the `--help` flag. These
options can also be set in the configuration file.

### 4.5. Interaction with the EOTS Manager

> There are 2 pieces to a finality provider entity: the EOTS manager and the 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are two pieces to a finality provider entity: the EOTS manager and the 
```

finality provider instance. These components work together and are managed by 

> separate daemons(`eotsd` and `fpd`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
separate daemons (`eotsd` and `fpd`).
```

The EOTS manager is responsible for managing the keys for finality providers and 
handles operations such as key management, signature generation, and randomness 

> commitments. Where as the finality provider is responsible for creating and 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
commitments. Whereas the finality provider is responsible for creating and 
```

registering finality providers and handling the monitoring of the Babylon chain. 
The finality provider daemon is also responsible for coordinating various 
operations.

> The interactions between the EOTS Manager and the finality provider happens 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The interactions between the EOTS Manager and the finality provider happen
```

through RPC calls. These calls handle key operations, signature generation, 
and randomness commitments. An easy way to think about it is the EOTS Manager 
maintains the keys while the FP daemon coordinates any interactions with the 
Babylon chain.

The EOTS Manager is designed to handle multiple finality provider keys, operating 
as a centralized key management system. When starting a finality provider instance, 
you specify which EOTS key to use through the `--eots-pk` flag. This allows you 
to run different finality provider instances using different keys from the same 

> EOTS Manager.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
EOTS Manager. Note that someone having access to your EOTS Manager
RPC will have access to all the EOTS keys held within it. 
```

For example, after registering a finality provider, you can start its daemon by 
providing the EOTS public key:

```shell
fpd start --eots-pk <hex-string-of-eots-public-key>
```

## 5. Finality Provider Operations

### 5.1 Create Finality Provider

The `create-finality-provider` command initializes a new finality provider
instance locally. 

``` shell
fpd create-finality-provider \ 
  --daemon-address 127.0.0.1:12581 \ 
  --chain-id bbn-test-5 \ 
  --eots-pk <eots-pk-hex> \
  --commission 0.05 \ 
  --key-name finality-provider \ 
  --moniker "MyFinalityProvider" \ 
  --website "https://myfinalityprovider.com" \
  --security-contact "security@myfinalityprovider.com" \ 
  --details "finality provider for the Babylon network" \ 
  --home ./fpHome
```

> <!-- TODO: JSON file -->

Reviewer: Will this TODO be tracked as an issue?

Required parameters: 
- `--chain-id`: The Babylon chain ID (e.g., for the testnet, `bbn-test-5`) 

> - `--eots-pk`: The EOTS public key maintained by the connected EOTS manager

Reviewer: @gitferry does the EOTS manager provide protections against people using the same `--eots-pk`? Worry this might be misused leading to slashing or wasting randomness.

Reviewer 2: - `fpd` will not allow create a fp if same eots pk already exists in db
- `create-finality-provider` will let EOTS manager sign pop (Schnorr sign not EOTS sign). Even if it is the same eots pk, signing over different babylon address will not cause slashing. Why would it relate to randomness?

  instance that the finality provider should use.
  If one is not provided the finality provider will request 
  the creation of a new one from the connected EOTS manager instance.
- `--commission`: The commission rate (between 0 and 1) that you'll receive from
  delegators 
- `--key-name`: The key name in your Babylon keyring that your finality
  provider will be associated with
- `--moniker`: A human-readable name for your finality provider

> ⚠️ **Important**: The same EOTS key should not be used by different 

> > finality providers. This could lead to slashing. Only use this if you have 
> > multiple finality providers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> finality providers. This could lead to slashing.
```

Only use what?

Optional parameters: 
- `--website`: Your finality provider's website 
- `--security-contact`: Contact email for security issues 
- `--details`: Additional description of your finality provider 
- `--daemon-address`: RPC address of the finality provider daemon
  (default: `127.0.0.1:12581`)

Upon successful creation, the command will return a JSON response containing
your finality provider's details:

``` json
{
    "fp_addr": "bbn1ht2nxa6hlyl89m8xpdde9xsj40n0sxd2f9shsq", 
    "eots_pk_hex":
    "cf0f03b9ee2d4a0f27240e2d8b8c8ef609e24358b2eb3cfd89ae4e4f472e1a41",
      "description": 
      {
        "moniker": "MyFinalityProvider", 
        "website": "https://myfinalityprovider.com", 
        "security_contact": "security@myfinalityprovider.com", 
        "details": "finality provider for the Babylon network"
      }, 
      "commission": "0.050000000000000000", 
      "status": "CREATED"
} 
```

The response includes: 

> - `fp_addr`: Your Babylon account address for receiving
>   rewards 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `fp_addr`: Your Babylon account address of the finality provider
```

Avoiding mentioning rewards if not necessary.

[fp-core](fp-core.md).

### 5.2. Register Finality Provider

The `register-finality-provider` command registers your finality provider on the
Babylon chain. This command requires you to specify:

1. The EOTS public key of the finality provider you wish to register
2. The Babylon account associated with your finality provider
   (the one specified in the creation) having sufficient funds 
   to pay for the transaction fee.
3. A running fpd daemon

``` shell
fpd register-finality-provider \
  <fp-eots-pk-hex> \
  --daemon-address <rpc-address> \ 
  --home <path>
```

Parameters:
- `<fp-eots-pk-hex>`: The EOTS public key of the finality provider you want to 
register (e.g., `cf0f03b9ee2d4a0f27240e2d8b8c8ef609e24358b2eb3cfd89ae4e4f472e1a41`)
- `--daemon-address`: RPC address of the finality provider daemon
  (default: `127.0.0.1:12581`)
- `--home`: Path to your finality provider daemon home directory (e.g., `~/.fpdHome`)

If successful, the command will return a transaction hash:

``` shell
{ "tx_hash":
"C08377CF289DF0DC5FA462E6409ADCB65A3492C22A112C58EA449F4DC544A3B1" } 
```

You can verify the transaction was successful by looking up this transaction 
hash on the Babylon chain.

> <!-- vitsalis: TODO: How about listing the finality providers using the CLI to

Reviewer: What about this TODO?

> submissions require gas payments. For testnet, you can obtain funds from our 
> [faucet](#add-faucet).
<!-- TODO: add faucet link -->

Use the following command to add the Babylon key for your finality provider:

```shell 
fpd keys add <key-name> --keyring-backend test --home <path>
```

The above `keys add` command will create a new key pair and store it in your keyring. 
The output should look similar to the one below:

``` json
{
  "address": "bbn19gulf0a4yz87twpjl8cxnerc2wr2xqm9fsygn9",
  "name": "finality-provider",
  "pubkey": {
    "@type": "/cosmos.crypto.secp256k1.PubKey",
    "key": "AhZAL00gKplLQKpLMiXPBqaKCoiessoewOaEATKd4Rcy"
  },
  "type": "local"
}
```

This command will automatically update the `Key` field in 
the config file to use this key name. This key will be used for all interactions 
with the Babylon chain, including finality provider registration and transaction 
signing.
 
### 4.3. Configure Your Finality Provider

Edit the `fpd.conf` file in your finality provider home directory with the 
following parameters:

```shell 
[Application Options] 
EOTSManagerAddress = 127.0.0.1:12582 

> RpcListener = 127.0.0.1:12581

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
RPCListener = 127.0.0.1:12581
```

[babylon] 
Key = <finality-provider-key-name-signer> # the key you used above
ChainID = bbn-test-5 # chain ID of the Babylon chain
RPCAddr = http://127.0.0.1:26657 
GRPCAddr = https://127.0.0.1:9090 

> KeyDirectory = <path> # The `--home`path to the directory where the keyring is stored

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
KeyDirectory = <path> # The `--home` path to the directory where the keyring is stored
```

``` 

> ⚠️ **Important**: Operating a finality provider requires a connection to a 
> Babylon blockchain node. It is **highly recommended** to operate your own 
> Babylon full node instead of relying on third parties. You can find 
> instructions on setting up a Babylon node 

> > [here](https://github.com/babylonlabs-io/networks/tree/main/bbn-1/node-setup).

Reviewer 2: Do we want to update the link before launch as it points to `bbn-1`? If so, better to add a TODO here

Configuration parameters explained:
* `EOTSManagerAddress`: Address where your EOTS daemon is running

> * `RpcListener`: Address for the finality provider RPC server

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `RPCListener`: Address for the finality provider RPC server
```

* `Key`: Your Babylon key name from Step 2
* `ChainID`: The Babylon network chain ID
* `RPCAddr`: Your Babylon node's RPC endpoint
* `GRPCAddr`: Your Babylon node's GRPC endpoint
* `KeyDirectory`: Path to your keyring directory (same as --home path)

Please verify the `chain-id` and other network parameters from the official 
[Babylon Networks
repository](https://github.com/babylonlabs-io/networks/tree/main/bbn-test-5/).

### 4.4. Starting the Finality Provider Daemon

The finality provider daemon (FPD) needs to be running before proceeding with 
registration or voting participation.

Start the daemon with:

``` shell
fpd start --home <path> 
```
An example of the `--home` flag is `--home ./fpHome`.

The command flags:
- `start`: Runs the FPD daemon
- `--home`: Specifies the directory for daemon data and configuration

> The daemon will establish a connection with the Babylon blockchain and

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The daemon will establish a connection with the Babylon node and
```

boot up its RPC server for executing CLI requests.

You should see logs indicating successful startup:

```
[INFO] Starting finality provider daemon...
[INFO] RPC server listening on...
```

> ⚠️ **Important**: The daemon needs to run continuously. It's recommended to set 
> up a system service (like `systemd` on Linux or `launchd` on macOS) to manage 
> the daemon process, handle automatic restarts, and collect logs.

The above will start the Finality provider RPC server at the address specified

> in `fpd.conf` under the `RpcListener` field, which has a default value

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
in `fpd.conf` under the `RPCListener` field, which has a default value
```

of `127.0.0.1:12581`. You can change this value in the configuration file or
override this value and specify a custom address using
the `--rpc-listener` flag.

All the available CLI options can be viewed using the `--help` flag. These
options can also be set in the configuration file.

### 4.5. Interaction with the EOTS Manager

There are 2 pieces to a finality provider entity: the EOTS manager and the 
finality provider instance. These components work together and are managed by 
separate daemons(`eotsd` and `fpd`).

The EOTS manager is responsible for managing the keys for finality providers and 
handles operations such as key management, signature generation, and randomness 
commitments. Where as the finality provider is responsible for creating and 
registering finality providers and handling the monitoring of the Babylon chain. 
The finality provider daemon is also responsible for coordinating various 

> operations.

Reviewer 2: Can we add a referrence to introduce EOTS manager?

maintains the keys while the FP daemon coordinates any interactions with the 
Babylon chain.

The EOTS Manager is designed to handle multiple finality provider keys, operating 
as a centralized key management system. When starting a finality provider instance, 
you specify which EOTS key to use through the `--eots-pk` flag. This allows you 
to run different finality provider instances using different keys from the same 
EOTS Manager.

For example, after registering a finality provider, you can start its daemon by 
providing the EOTS public key:

```shell
fpd start --eots-pk <hex-string-of-eots-public-key>
```

## 5. Finality Provider Operations

### 5.1 Create Finality Provider

The `create-finality-provider` command initializes a new finality provider
instance locally. 

``` shell
fpd create-finality-provider \ 
  --daemon-address 127.0.0.1:12581 \ 
  --chain-id bbn-test-5 \ 
  --eots-pk <eots-pk-hex> \
  --commission 0.05 \ 
  --key-name finality-provider \ 
  --moniker "MyFinalityProvider" \ 
  --website "https://myfinalityprovider.com" \
  --security-contact "security@myfinalityprovider.com" \ 
  --details "finality provider for the Babylon network" \ 
  --home ./fpHome
```

> <!-- TODO: doesn't this also work with a JSON file, like SDK validators? -->

Reviewer 2: We can after https://github.com/babylonlabs-io/finality-provider/issues/14 is addressed

> Required parameters: 

Reviewer 2: `eots-pk` should also be required for EOTS manager to retrieve the correct key and sign pop

- `--chain-id`: The Babylon chain ID (e.g., for the testnet, `bbn-test-5`) 
- `--commission`: The commission rate (between 0 and 1) that you'll receive from
  delegators 
- `--key-name`: The key name in your Babylon keyring that your finality
  provider will be associated with
- `--moniker`: A human-readable name for your finality provider

> ⚠️ **Important**: The same EOTS key should not be used by different 
> finality providers. This could lead to slashing. Only use this if you have 
> multiple finality providers.

Optional parameters: 
- `--eots-pk`: The EOTS public key maintained by the connected EOTS manager
  instance that the finality provider should use.
  If one is not provided the finality provider will request 

>   the creation of a new one from the connected EOTS manager instance.

Reviewer 2: This should cut

- `--website`: Your finality provider's website 
- `--security-contact`: Contact email for security issues 
- `--details`: Additional description of your finality provider 
- `--daemon-address`: RPC address of the finality provider daemon
  (default: `127.0.0.1:12581`)

Upon successful creation, the command will return a JSON response containing
your finality provider's details:

``` json
{
    "fp_addr": "bbn1ht2nxa6hlyl89m8xpdde9xsj40n0sxd2f9shsq", 
    "eots_pk_hex":
    "cf0f03b9ee2d4a0f27240e2d8b8c8ef609e24358b2eb3cfd89ae4e4f472e1a41",
      "description": 
      {
        "moniker": "MyFinalityProvider", 
        "website": "https://myfinalityprovider.com", 
        "security_contact": "security@myfinalityprovider.com", 
        "details": "finality provider for the Babylon network"
      }, 
      "commission": "0.050000000000000000", 
      "status": "CREATED"
} 
```

The response includes: 
- `fp_addr`: Your Babylon account address for receiving
  rewards 
- `eots_pk_hex`: Your unique BTC public key identifier
- `description`: Your finality provider's metadata 
- `commission`: Your set commission rate 
- `status`: Current status of the finality provider.

> 

Reviewer 2: emty line

Below you can see a list of the statuses that a finality provider can transition
to:
- `CREATED`: defines a finality provider that is awaiting registration
- `REGISTERED`: defines a finality provider that has been registered
  to the consumer chain but has no delegated stake
- `ACTIVE`: defines a finality provider that is delegated to vote
- `INACTIVE`: defines a finality provider whose delegations are reduced to 
  zero but not slashed

> - `JAILED`: defines a finality provider that has been jailed

Reviewer 2: we can also add `SLASHED` here

For more information on statuses please refer to diagram in the core documentation 

> [fp-core](./fp-core).

Reviewer 2: is the link correct?

### 5.2. Register Finality Provider

The `register-finality-provider` command registers your finality provider on the
Babylon chain. This command requires you to specify:

1. The EOTS public key of the finality provider you wish to register
2. The Babylon account associated with your finality provider
   (the one specified in the creation) having sufficient funds 
   to pay for the transaction fee.
3. A running fpd daemon

``` shell
fpd register-finality-provider \
  <fp-eots-pk-hex> \
  --daemon-address <rpc-address> \ 
  --home <path>
```

Parameters:
- `<fp-eots-pk-hex>`: The EOTS public key of the finality provider you want to 
register (e.g., `cf0f03b9ee2d4a0f27240e2d8b8c8ef609e24358b2eb3cfd89ae4e4f472e1a41`)
- `--daemon-address`: RPC address of the finality provider daemon
  (default: `127.0.0.1:12581`)
- `--home`: Path to your finality provider daemon home directory (e.g., `~/.fpdHome`)

If successful, the command will return a transaction hash:

``` shell
{ "tx_hash":
"C08377CF289DF0DC5FA462E6409ADCB65A3492C22A112C58EA449F4DC544A3B1" } 
```

You can verify the transaction was successful by looking up this transaction 

> hash on the Babylon chain.

Reviewer 2: Should we provide a link to a third party explorer or CLI cmd to query the tx content?

Reviewer: Don't think we should link to something here, not the purpose of this guide. This is just a small tip.

I think including the below TODO should be enough in terms of verification
